---
lastmod:
old_version: false
old_version: true
date:
linktitle: Descope integration
title: Descope Authorization
description: Learn how to integrate Descope authorization with KrakenD API Gateway for secure and controlled access to your APIs.
weight: 110
menu:
  community_v2.11:
    parent: "080 Authentication & Authorization"
meta:
  #since:
  source: https://github.com/krakend/krakend-jose
  namespace:
  - auth/validator
  scope:
  - endpoint
  log_prefix:
  - "[ENDPOINT: /foo][JWTValidator]"
skip_header_image: true
images:
---

Securing your APIs and underlying microservices is crucial in modern development. Descope enables you to add advanced authentication capabilities to your KrakenD endpoints efficiently.

[Descope](https://www.descope.com/) is a passwordless authentication and user management service designed for developers. KrakenD integrates with Descope via the [JWT validation](/docs/v2.11/authorization/jwt-validation/) component.

## Descope integration
JSON web tokens (JWT) are an open standard ([RFC 7519](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc7519)) that define a way for securely transmitting information between parties. JWT tokens are compact, secure (digitally signed), and have become an industry-standard used at internet scale. KrakenD supports [any system using this open standard](https://www.krakend.io/docs/authorization/jwt-validation/), including Descope.

## The validation workflow

Whether you are trying to protect your API from end-users or machine-to-machine access, the workflow is the same:

- End-Users use their applications to log in to Descope who provides an access token for the session.
- Machine-to-machine communication also uses a token from Descope after providing a client_id and a client_secret.
- With the token generated by Descope, the client passes it to KrakenD in each request inside an HTTP header or cookie
- KrakenD authorizes or not the usage of the specific endpoint according to the rules you have configured.

As KrakenD can validate the Descope signature by itself, it does not need to call the Descope server to validate the token every time. Instead, KrakenD queries Descope every 15 minutes (configurable) to ensure the key has not rotated.

## Protecting endpoints with Descope tokens

We will create a simple KrakenD configuration with a single endpoint `/descope-protected`, ensuring only users with valid tokens can access it.

Create a `krakend.json` file and add the following configuration:

{{< highlight JSON "hl_lines=8-11" >}}
{
  "version": 3,
  "timeout": "3s",
  "endpoints":[
  {
    "endpoint": "/descope-protected",
    "extra_config": {
        "auth/validator": {
            "alg": "RS256",
            "jwk_url": "https://api.descope.com/v2/keys/<your_project_id>"
        }
    },
    "backend": [
        {
          "host":["http://localhost:8080"],
          "url_pattern": "/__health"
        }
    ]
  }]
}
{{< /highlight >}}

<Callout>
Replace `api.descope.com` with your [custom domain](https://docs.descope.com/how-to-deploy-to-production/custom-domain) or your respective localized base url.
</Callout>

That's all you need for the basic configuration! You can expand the structure now to include checking specific roles, claims, etc.

### Testing the configuration

From the folder where we create our `krakend.json` file, start the gateway with:
{{< terminal title="Start the gateway with your configuration">}}
docker run --rm -v "$PWD:/etc/krakend" -p "8080:8080" {{< product image >}}:2.11
{{< /terminal >}}

Verify the gateway is running by checking the unprotected /__health endpoint:
{{< terminal title="Check the Gateway is alive">}}
curl -iG http://localhost:8080/__health
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
Date: Sun, 23 May 2021 15:32:32 GMT
Content-Length: 15

{"status":"ok"}
{{< /terminal >}}

Now let's try to access the `/descope-protected` endpoint **without a token**:

{{< terminal title="Unauthenticated request">}}
curl -iG http://localhost:8080/descope-protected
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
Date: Wed, 29 Jan 2025 00:13:29 GMT
Content-Length: 0
{{< /terminal >}}

Since no token is provided, KrakenD correctly denies access. If you check the KrakenD logs, you will also find a line `Error #01: Token not found`.

Let's get a valid M2M token now. Log in to your Descope Console and [create an access key](https://docs.descope.com/m2m-access-keys/m2mauth#setting-up-access-keys). Using your Descope Project Id and Access Key, you can then run the followin `cURL` command to exchange the access key for a JWT:

{{< terminal title="Machine to Machine token request">}}
curl -X POST "https://api.descope.com/v1/auth/accesskey/exchange" \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -H "Authorization: Bearer <Project ID:Access Key>"
{{< /terminal >}}

The response of the call above will provide you with a `sessionJwt`.

Now you are ready to request protected resources from the gateway. Replace the sample URL with your gateway URL and `<your-session-jwt>` with the `sessionJwt` retrieved in the previous step:

{{< terminal title="Getting access to the protected endpoint">}}
curl --request GET \
  --url http://localhost:8080/descope-protected \
  --header 'authorization: Bearer <your-session-jwt>'
{"status":"ok"}
{{< /terminal >}}

That's it! The `{"status": "ok"}` is the response you have from the `/descope-protected` endpoint after being validated as a legitimate user.

### Advanced configurations
We have completed a basic setup that validates users using access tokens. With this simple configuration, we introduce a highly secure ecosystem that protects your business from undesired access. Now you might want to add **additional checks to your system** and take advantage of all the powerful features of Descope.

Some possibilities are:
- Create [**Roles** in Descope](https://docs.descope.com/authorization) and add them as a condition to accessing an endpoint in KrakenD.
- Customize JWTs with [Descope JWT templates](https://docs.descope.com/project-settings/jwt-templates) for Users or Access Keys
- Propagate user claims to your backend services.

For more details, see [KrakenD's JWT Validation documentation](/docs/v2.11/authorization/jwt-validation/).

### Conclusion
Integrating Descope with KrakenD enhances security while maintaining flexibility. You can designate protected and public endpoints, ensuring controlled access to your APIs. Descope’s seamless integration with KrakenD streamlines authentication and improves user experience, making it an excellent choice for secure API management